docs/designDecisions.md, before:

# Design 
This document serves as a log of the decision made when designing The Key Attendance system. Note that the "options" label is not inclusive of all possible options, just the one we considered at the time. This document was started during the 3rd iteration, so not all relvant design decisions are listed (yet).

## Virtual Environment
Options: pipenv, venv, virtualenv
Decision: virtualenv
Reason: Most popular, most support, easiset to use, sustainable between python versions

## Web Framework
Options: Django

## Application Structure
Options: Django templates, SPA with React, Django REST framework for providing API endpoints and React in its own app called "frontend".
https://dev.to/valentinogagliardi/react--django-rest-framework--love--ofp


## Django View Types
Options: Function, Class based, Generic
Decision: Class based
Reason: Original group (2019) did it

## Database Type
Options: SQL/RDBS, NoSQL
Decision: SQL/RDBS
Reason: A relational database system has the structre that makes sense for storing the information we need to. We care more about ACID than big data analysis, flexibility, or scalability. We aren't storing graphs, documents, or any abnormal datatype. 

## Database Management System
Options: PostgreSQL, MongoDB
Decision: PostgreSQL
Reason: MongoDB specializes in NoSQL. PostgreSQL has a lot of support and is very flexible.

## Hosting
Options: Cloud services, In-House server
Decision: Cloud services
Reason: The Key has expressed they care more about minimizing maintenance than the cost they incur from hosting on the cloud.

## Host
Options: EC2, ...

## File Renewals
Options: .gitignore
Decision: adding all folders of auto-generated files made during instance startup to the .gitignore file
Reason: For the sake of 1) robustness, 2) not encountering unexpected problems during re-instancing, 3) allowing the students working on this project to see how Django, 

## Routing through the app
Options: component, [render](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/web/api/Route/render-func)

Commit message:

designDecisions done probably, might come back to update application structure entry with more useful info on JWT authentication

docs/designDecisions.md, after:

# Design 
This document serves as a log of the decision made when designing The Key Attendance system. Note that the "options" label is not inclusive of all possible options, just the one we considered at the time. This document was started during the 3rd iteration, so not all relvant design decisions are listed (yet).

## Virtual Environment
Options: pipenv, venv, __virtualenv__

Reason: Most popular, most support, easiset to use, sustainable between python versions.

## Web Framework
__Django__: implemented by 2019

## Application Structure
__React SPA with Django backend__: Original group (2019) did it. You can become less confused on how Django views (class based in our case) are mapped to React views (class components) [in two sections here](https://www.valentinog.com/blog/drf/#django-rest-with-react-setting-up-the-controll-ehm-the-views). We do option 2, so the tutorial is only useful up to where he lists the options (since he goes with option 1).

## Database Type
Options: __SQL/RDBS__, NoSQL

Reason: A relational database system has the structre that makes sense for storing the information we need to. We care more about ACID than big data analysis, flexibility, or scalability. We aren't storing graphs, documents, or any abnormal datatype. 

## Database Management System
Options: __PostgreSQL__, MongoDB

Reason: PostgreSQL has a lot of support and is very flexible. It also was already implemented. MongoDB specializes in NoSQL. (tip: search "mongoDb is web scale" for a good time)

## Hosting
Options: __Cloud services__, In-House server

Reason: The Key has expressed they care more about minimizing maintenance than the cost they incur from hosting on the cloud.

## File Renewals
Options: __global__ and __local__ .gitignore
Decision: adding all folders of auto-generated files made during instance startup to the .gitignore file
Reason: For the sake of 1) robustness, 2) not encountering unexpected problems during re-instancing, 3) allowing the students working on this project to see how Django migrations are magical.
